INDICATION:

The MRI of the L-spine performed:
Coronal T2WI with fat sat (localized)
Sagittal T1, T2WI
Axial T1WI and T2WI with fat sat:

PREVIOUS MRI L-spine: no

FINDINGS:

Presence of scoliosis of the L-spine, convex to left/right side.
Rotatory scoliosis of L-spine, convex to left/right side.
Presence of transitional lumbosacral junction type IIa noted.
Presence of transitional lumbosacral junction and with sacral
lumbolization noted.

L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1:No definite spinal stenosis.

L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1: Presence of diffuse bulging disk, causing mild indentation of anterior dural sac, however, no obvious significant spinal stenosis.

L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1: Presence of diffuse bulging/protrusion/herniation disk, disc space narrowing, degenerative endplate change, ligament flavum hypertrophy and facet joint degenerative change causing mild/moderate/severe degree central spinal stenosis and mild/moderate/severe narrowing of bilateral lateral recesses and mild/moderate/severe degree degenerative bilateral/right/left neuroforaminal stenosis.

and prominence of epidural fat (epidural lipomatosis)

L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1: Presence of diffuse bulging disc, and associated with the posterior-central/right/left/posterior-lateral/lateral herniated nucleus pulposus (HIVD), cranial/caudal migration of this HIVD, with compression /attachment of the adjacent nerve root/dural sac, ligament flavum hypertrophy and facet joint degenerative change  causing mild/moderate/severe degree central spinal stenosis and mild/moderate/severe narrowing of bilateral lateral recesses and mild/moderate/severe degree degenerative bilateral/right/left neuroforaminal stenosis.

L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1: Presence of posterior-central/right/left/posterior-lateral/lateral herniated nucleus pulposus (HIVD), cranial/caudal migration of this HIVD, with compression /attachment of the adjacent nerve root/dural sac, ligament flavum hypertrophy and facet joint degenerative change  causing mild/moderate/severe degree central spinal stenosis and mild/moderate/severe narrowing of bilateral lateral recesses and mild/moderate/severe degree degenerative bilateral/right/left neuroforaminal stenosis.

L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1: Mild diffuse bulging disc, and associated with the right side lateral herniation of disc (HIVD in right side L5-S1 neuroforamen), and comprerssion of right side L5 nerve root, and associated with mild ligament flavum hypertrophy, mild facet joint DJD change and causing mild to moderate central spinal stenosis.

L4-5, L5-S1: Presence of grade II spondylolytic spondylolisthesis in combination of diffuse bulging disc, disc space narrowing and facet joint degenerative osteophytes causing mild/moderate/severe degree central spinal stenosis and bilateral neuroforaminal stenosis.

L4-5, L5-S1: Presence of Grade 1 degenerative type spondylolisthesis in combination of diffuse bulging/protrusion/herniation disc, disc space narrowing, combined with ligament flavum hypertrophy and facet joint degenerative changes causing mild/moderate/severe degree central spinal stenosis and mild/moderate/severe narrowing of bilateral lateral recesses and mild/moderate/severe degree degenerative bilateral/right/left neuroforaminal stenosis.

Degenerative disc disease:
1. Desiccation: L1 through L5
2. Disc space narrowing: L2 through L5

No evidence of abnormal signal intensity mass lesion in the spinal canal of L-spine noted.

Presence of cystic lesion, maximum diameter about 1.1 cm in size, manifested with hypointensity on T1WI and hyperintensity on T2WI, near right/left L4-5 facet joint and medial to the facet joint and ligamentum flavum, DDx: synovial cyst or ligamentum flavum cyst.

right side synovial cyst (iso- to hypointensity on T1WI and mild hyperintensity on T2WI), size about 7mm, noted medial to the adjacent right side facet joint, and lateral to the dural sac, and severe ligamentum flavum hypertrophy, facet joint DJD change, and causing severe spinal stenosis noted.

Baastrup's disease of L3-4 with bone edema and enhancement of the kissing spinous process, and interspinous fluid and posterocentral epidural cyst noted.

T6-T7, T7-T8, T8-T9, T9-T10, T10-T11, T11-T12, T12-L1: Bilateral ligament flavum hypertrophy or ossification of ligament flavum, causing mild-to-moderate spinal stenosis.

Presence of small posterior annulus fibrosus tear between L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5 and L5-S1.

Limbus vertebra (old anterior disc herniation through ring?  apophysis )      level :
posteroinferior limbus vertebra of L3 and L4

Presence of congenital short pedicle with decreased bony AP diameter of the L-spine/ lower L-spine noted.

Schmorl's node ( vertical intravertebral disc herniation ) over the T12-L1, L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1.

Presence of small lipomatous filum terminales, however, no evidence of causing tethered cord noted.
Presence of small linear shape lipoma over the filum terminales, and no evidence of causing tethered cord noted.

Presence of several perineural cysts over the spinal canal of the upper sacrum level, the biggest one about 2cm.
Schmorl's node ( vertical intravertebral disc herniation ) over the L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, L5-S1.
Presence of L6 ( lumbarization of S1) noted.
Suspicious spodylolysis fracture of L5 pars interarticularis.
Presence of dessicated disc noted over L4-5 and L5-S1 and L-spine.
Presence of degenerative end-plate change noted over the L4-L5.
Narrowing of bilateral L4-5 and L5-S1 neuroforamina due to the degenerative change and severe disc space narrowing.

mild retrolisthesis
mild/moderate/severe disc space narrowing
small spondylosis

Presence of disc space narrowing noted over L2-3, L3-4, and severe disc space narrowing noted L4-5 and L5-S1.

Presence of small hemangiomas over L1 and L4 spine verterbral body.
Presence of benign hemangioma noted over the L2 spine vertebral body, size about 2.1 x 2 x 2cm.


IMPRESSION:
SUGGESTION: